# Topedia
This is a project that involves a web application created with the popular `Django` framework. It accomodates a series of topics for E-learning to be consumed by users of which personas will differ based on educational history and goals. Using the `MVT` (Model, View, Template) pattern as well as `Python` for the back-end logic, the web application will incorporate user interactivity and database connectivity to deliver an effective user and learning experience. 

The app will be named `Topedia` and encapsulates the idea of several topics to have self-contained topic rooms discussing various subjects and providing learning material about the parent concept. It will involve several pages of which will enable a user to login to add their own topics or learning material, leave comments and collaborate with other users or view without a login with restricted access. There will also be a filter by which a user can use to search or filter out the resources that appear to them, to target what the user wants to learn, and to display resources which will be beneficial to learning a particular subject. The ecosystem of resources will allow multimedia such as image and video as well as text for the user to customize how they want to teach their material to users. 

The `Django templating engine` will be used to form templates of static files that are dynamically displayed by `views`. `Views` are reached through the assigned URL that the user enters into their address bar or automatically through links in other pages. `Models` provide the data structure for entities and interactivity to the database that can be used alongside views to generate application logic. These will represent the attributes to objects such as a `User`, `Message` or `Room`.

## Features
- **MVT and Database Connectivity** - The MVT pattern allows the developer to separate the different components of the application so that it is easy to insert, modfiy and understand the code. Templates are generally what the user sees through the rendering of HTML pages with CSS and JS included. Views house the application logic and processing of HTTP POST and GET requests. Models represent entities and define the data structure and attributes of objects in the application. The database connects to the models to create the necessary tables and commands to reflect the structure and attributes provided. These are done in the form of migrations and need to be updated as changes are made.

- **Login and Register Capabilities** - Users are able to create their own account and login free with Topedia to create their own topics and learning material. They are also able to collaborate with other users by following, favouriting topic rooms and commenting. If a user does not want to benefit from these features, they can access topic rooms without having an account with limited functionality with how they can interact.

- **Filter of topics and produced results** - Found at the top of every page, the user can enter input into the search bar to receive topic room results related to the provided input. This means a user can target the content they receive by applying a filter through a search result or by browsing and selecting a topic to limit results to.

- **CRUD operations on created learning material and topics** - Created objects such as learning material and topics have the ability to be created, read, updated and deleted. These allow the user to control the content they create and to make appropriate modifications to suit their goals. Other objects like messages, user following and favourties can be created and deleted / removed. 

- **Cascade deletion of comments, learning material, topics and multimedia** - To ensure application storage and structure is maintained, many model objects and user uploaded content is removed upon the deletion of linked objects. This is known as cascade deletion and is a popular method used within the database to ensure and the content included is linked and no anomalies are hidden clogging space and structure. 

- **Profile Picture Modification** - A user with a newly registered account will have their profile picture set as the default anonymous image. Users are able to update this by selecting an image from their files.
